.TH muttdown "1" "August 2018"
.SH NAME
muttdown - Sendmail replacement that compiles markdown into HTML
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B muttdown
[-c \fIconfig_file\fR] [-p] -f \fIfrom_address\fR [-s] \fIto_address\fR ...
.br
.B muttdown
[-h]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmuttdown\fR is a sendmail-replacement designed for use with the mutt email
client which will transparently compile annotated \fItext/plain\fR mail into
\fItext/html\fR using the Markdown standard.
.P
It expects a RFC\-822 formatted mail on STDIN.
.P
It will recursively walk the MIME tree and compile any \fItext/plain\fR or
\fItext/markdown\fR part which begins with the sigil "!m" into Markdown, which
it will insert alongside the original in a multipart/alternative container.
.P
It's also smart enough not to break \fImultipart/signed\fR.
.P
For example, the following tree before parsing:
.IP
- multipart/mixed
 |
 -- multipart/signed
 |
 ---- text/markdown
 |
 ---- application/pgp-signature
 |
 -- image/png
.P
Will get compiled into:
.IP
- multipart/mixed
 |
 -- multipart/alternative
 |
 ---- text/html
 |
 ---- multipart/signed
 |
 ------ text/markdown
 |
 ------ application/pgp-signature
 |
 -- image/png

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fI\,CONFIG_FILE\/\fR, \fB\-\-config_file\fR \fI\,CONFIG_FILE\/\fR
Path to YAML config file (default \fI~/.muttdown.yaml\fR)

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-print\-message\fR
Print the translated message to stdout instead of sending it

.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fI\,from_address\/\fR, \fB\-\-envelope\-from\fR \fI\,from_address\/\fR
The \fIfrom\fR address for the email

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sendmail\-passthru\fR
Pass mail through to \fBsendmail\fR for delivery

.TP
\fBto_address\fR
The \fIto\fR address where the email is being sent

.SH CONFIGURATION
Muttdown's configuration file is written using YAML. Example:
.IP
smtp_host: smtp.gmail.com
.br
smtp_port: 587
.br
smtp_ssl: false
.br
smtp_username: foo@bar.com
.br
smtp_password: foo
.br
css_file: ~/.muttdown.css
.P
If you prefer not to put your password in plaintext in a configuration file, you
can instead specify the \fBsmtp_password_command\fR parameter to invoke a shell
command to lookup your password. The command should output your password,
followed by a newline, and no other text. On OS X, the following invocation will
extract a generic "Password" entry with the application set to \fImutt\fR and
the title set to \fIfoo@bar.com\fR:
.IP
smtp_password_command: security find-generic-password -w -s mutt -a foo@bar.com
.P
\fBNOTE:\fR If \fBsmtp_ssl\fR is set to \fIFalse\fR, muttdown will do a non-SSL
session and then invoke STARTTLS. If \fBsmtp_ssl\fR is set to \fITrue\fR,
\fBmuttdown\fR will do an SSL session from the get-go. There is no option to
send mail in plaintext.
.P
The \fBcss_file\fR should be regular CSS styling blocks; we use \fBpynliner\fR
to inline all CSS rules for maximum client compatibility.
.P
\fBmuttdown\fR can also send its mail using the native \fBsendmail\fR if you
have that set up (instead of doing SMTP itself). To do so, just leave the smtp
options in the config file blank, set the \fBsendmail\fR option to the
fully-qualified path to your \fBsendmail\fR binary, and run \fBmuttdown\fR with
the \fB-s\fR flag

.SH AUTHORS
\fBmuttdown\fR was written by James Brown <Roguelazer@gmail.com>.
.P
This man page was adapted from \fBmuttdown\fR's README by Stephen Gelman
<ssgelm@gmail.com> for the Debian project and may be used by others.
